add tutorial "How to mint an NFT with Javascript" (#643)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: content/tutorials/single-page-tutorials/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer.md

---

> title: How to mint an NFT” with Javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to mint a native NFT with Javascript on Shimmer
```

Same as above.

Reviewer 2: Why did you resolve this?
At least the " has to go 😅

description: Learn how to mint an NFT on the Shimmer Network with Javascript
tags: [Shimmer, NFT, beginner, Javascript, iota.js]
---

> # How to mint an NFT with Javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to mint a native NFT with Javascript on Shimmer
```

> Learn how to mint an NFT on the Shimmer Network with Javascript

## What you will learn

- How NFTs work on Layer 1 (L1)
- How you can mint an NFT
- How to use and read the Shimmer Explorer

> - How the Immutable Metadata works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How the immutable metadata works
```

What's up with you Germans and weird capitalization :trollface:

> :::info
> ## Why we have iota.js and iota.rs with Node.js bindings

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, but you could do this

```suggestion
:::info Why we have iota.js and iota.rs with Node.js bindings
```

- iota.js can be used in the browser, this is not possible with the Node.js bindings on iota.rs
- iora.rs Node.js bindings are recommended to use in Node.js applications
- for wallet integrations, we recommend to use wallet.rs, which offers abstractions to handle IOTA payments and can optionally interact with IOTA Stronghold for seed
:::

And now, let's start with preparing the development environment. This tutorial assumes that you have Node.js installed.

> ## Setup Development Environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup development environment. 
```

Tip: If you need some Testnet tokens, you can use the [online faucet for Shimmer](https://faucet.alphanet.iotaledger.net/).

```bash
tputId:  0x3acd3f42a03d595cb9d134635ed67aa4721bdb4ccb15ef10ebb8646daabb04910000
To be consumed output:  {
  type: 3,
  amount: '1000000000',
  unlockConditions: [ { type: 0, address: [Object] } ]
}
Input:  {
  type: 0,
  transactionId: '0x3acd3f42a03d595cb9d134635ed67aa4721bdb4ccb15ef10ebb8646daabb0491',
  transactionOutputIndex: 0
}
Required Storage Deposit of the NFT output:  270500
Submitted blockId is:  0xfdfd9cdd92c6d710cafc96c8f0c9c010aca4286faad1722c45a08bc23e15d6bb
Check out the transaction at  https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet/block/0xfdfd9cdd92c6d710cafc96c8f0c9c010aca4286faad1722c45a08bc23e15d6bb
Done
```

You can click on the link, and discover the information on the Shimmer network Explorer. 

![](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/explorer.png)

You can open the details on the NFT output to see the connected NFT Metadata. Just click on the `NFT Output`and the `Immutable Metadata` to view the data.

> ![](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/metadata.png)

Reviewer 3: please add a title for the image

In this example, the data is a text called `This is where the immutable NFT metadata goes`. Let's discover what NFT Metadata is in detail and how you can add some custom Metadata and learn how other applications can use it.  

> ## NFT Metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NFT metadata
```

> You can define any data as **Immutable Metadata**, which will be stored in the Tangle. The community defined a standard for the metadata called [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65). This enables interoperability so the standardized metadata can be used by decentral applications like NFT marketplaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define any data as **immutable metadata**, which will be stored in the Tangle. The community defined a standard for the metadata called [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65). This enables interoperability so the standardized metadata can be used by decentral applications like NFT marketplaces. 
```

This is a simple example of a IRC27 compatible metadata. 
```javascript=
const METADATA = {
    standard: "IRC27",
    version: "v1.0",
    type: "image/jpeg",
    uri: "https://robohash.org/shimmer",
    name: "NFT on Shimmer",
    issuerName: "My name",
    description: "This is My First NFT on Shimmer"
};
```

You can find a more complex example with royalties and NFT attributes in the [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65), but for us in the tutorial, the simple example is enough. 

> ### How to add Metadata to an NFT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to add metadata to an NFT
```

Reviewer: @lucas-tortora why not this one? Metadata is not a proper noun is it?

> For our example, we need to extend the code for our custom Metadata. For this, you need to open the source file in `src/index.ts` and we need to add 2 things, our Metadata Object and a converter to input the data into the transaction.
> 
> Add your metadata as a constant on line 35 below the EXPLORER, API_ENDPOINT, and FAUCET constants.
> Please feel free to use another name, issuerName, description and uri of the image, so you will create your unique NFT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this example, you need to extend the code for your custom Metadata. To do so, you need to open the source file in `src/index.ts` and add your Metadata Object and a converter to input the data into the transaction.

Add your metadata as a constant on line 35 below the `EXPLORER`, `API_ENDPOINT`, and `FAUCET` constants.

Please feel free to use another `name`, `issuerName`, `description`, and `uri` for the image to create your unique NFT.

```

```javascript=
const METADATA = {
    standard: "IRC27",
    version: "v1.0",
    type: "image/jpeg",
    uri: "https://robohash.org/shimmer",
    name: "NFT on Shimmer",
    issuerName: "My name",
    description: "This is My First NFT on Shimmer"
};
```

Now you need to convert the Javascript object into a Hex format, so the library can send the transaction.

> To solve this, just replace line 106 with the following changes:
> 
> old
> ```javascript=
> data: Converter.utf8ToHex("This is where the immutable NFT metadata goes", true)
> ```
> 
> new
> ```javascript=
> data: Converter.utf8ToHex(JSON.stringify(METADATA), true)
> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
You can do so by replacing line 106 with the following changes:

**Old**:

```javascript
data: Converter.utf8ToHex("This is where the immutable NFT metadata goes", true)
```
**New**:

```javascript
data: Converter.utf8ToHex(JSON.stringify(METADATA), true)
```
````

> That's all, now you need to compile the Typescript file again to Javascript and run the example!
> 
> ```bash=

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
After you have customized your NFT, you will need to compile the Typescript filet o Javascript again, and run the example:

```bash
````

npm run dist
npm start
```

> This should be the console output: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

**Expected output:** 
```

```bash
Required Storage Deposit of the NFT output:  342500
Submitted blockId is:  0x1e74f33313586cc2806776ee272deb65f140c2aafa53ce8040dea8c1820e1117
Check out the transaction at  https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet/block/0x1e74f33313586cc2806776ee272deb65f140c2aafa53ce8040dea8c1820e1117
Done
```

> #### NFT with IRC27 compatible metadata

Reviewer 3: Wasn't this covered already?

> ![](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/irc27.png)

Reviewer 3: please add a title for images

:::info
The maximum length of a Metadata field in the Shimmer Network is 8192 bytes and is defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md)
:::

> Minting must respect the following constraints:
>  - _NFT ID_ must be zeroed out. The protocol will replace it with the blake2b-256 hash of the _Output ID_ upon booking.
>  - _Issuer_ address must be unlocked on the input side,
>  - _Immutable Metadata_ length must not exceed _Maximum Metadata Length_ defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Minting must respect the following constraints:

 - _NFT ID_ must be zeroed out. The protocol will replace it with the blake2b-256 hash of the _Output ID_ upon booking.
 - _Issuer_ address must be unlocked on the input side.
 - _Immutable Metadata_ length must not exceed _Maximum Metadata Length_ defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md).
```

---
title: How to mint a native NFT with Javascript on Shimmer
description: Learn how to mint an NFT on the Shimmer Network with Javascript
tags: [Shimmer, NFT, beginner, Javascript, iota.js, client]
---

# How to Mint a Native NFT With Javascript on Shimmer

> A non-fungible token (NFT) is a token that is verifiably unique and can be used to prove and transfer ownership of a digital asset. You can create NFTs in the Shimmer ledger as a native asset or use smart contracts as a smart asset. This tutorial uses Javascript to mint a native NFT in the Shimmer ledger.

Reviewer: Good catch about "smart asset". This was a term used a few months back within IF, but it has no mention at all on the Wiki, so I guess we should ditch it. Also I might have misused the term "native asset" here in that case, as I was using it in comparison to "smart asset". What would be the correct terms here? L1 and L2 native assets? The distinction being in the layer?

> A non-fungible token (NFT) is a token that is verifiably unique and can be used to prove and transfer ownership of a digital asset. You can create NFTs in the Shimmer ledger as a native asset or use smart contracts as a smart asset. This tutorial uses Javascript to mint a native NFT in the Shimmer ledger.

Reviewer: I was trying to avoid using "L1" and "L2" in this case, because those terms might need some explanation to new comers. I thought it would be best explicitly mentioning NFTs can be created either in the Shimmer ledger or in a smart contract ledger.

## What you will learn

- [How NFTs work on Layer 1 (L1)](#What_is_an_NFT?)
- [How you can mint an NFT](#Mint_a_NFT)
- [How to use and read the Shimmer Explorer](#)
- [How the Immutable Metadata works](#How_to_add_Metadata_to_an_NFT)

:::info Why we have iota.js and iota.rs with Node.js bindings
- You can use [iota.js](https://wiki.iota.org/iotajs/welcome) in a browser. This is not possible with the Node.js bindings on iota.rs.
- [iora.rs Node.js](https://wiki.iota.org/iota.rs/getting_started/nodejs) bindings are recommended to use in Node.js applications.
- For wallet integrations, we recommend using [wallet.rs](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/welcome), which offers abstractions to handle IOTA payments and can optionally interact with IOTA Stronghold for seed.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Also rephrased the sentence

# Prerequisites
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

## What is an NFT?

> An NFT is short-term for Non Fungible Tokens - so it's a unique token that can represent a digital asset within its immutable data. This is a new decentral way to prove ownership and brings a lot of functionality and expandability which can be used in DApp and Games. An NFT can represent tangible assets like a house or a car or digital assets like a membership. The common use case is NFTs with linked Images, which often bring special membership, and access to private places.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An NFT is short-term for Non Fungible Tokens - so it's a unique token that can represent a digital asset within its immutable data. This is a new decentral way to prove ownership and brings a lot of functionality and expandability, which can be used in DApp and Games. An NFT can represent tangible assets like a house or a car or digital assets like a membership. The typical use case is NFTs with linked Images, which often bring special membership, and access to private places.
```

> Here in the tutorial, we will mint an NFT with a permanently linked image. The term `mint` means the process of creating a new NFT in the network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will mint an NFT with a permanently linked image in this tutorial. The term `mint` means creating a new NFT in the network.
```

## Set Up 
Let's start with preparing the development environment. This tutorial assumes that you have Node.js installed.

First, copy the iota.js library to your computer, so you can run the example and go through it. 

```bash
git clone --branch feat/stardust https://github.com/iotaledger/iota.js shimmer-nft-example
```

> Now you should switch to the example directory in the `mint-nft`example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you should switch to the example directory in the `mint-nft` example.
```

```bash
cd shimmer-nft-example/packages/iota/examples/mint-nft
```

You will need to update the iota.js library for the Stardust update and install all the dependencies of the example.

```bash

> npm install @iota/crypto.js@next @iota/iota.js@next @iota/util.js@next @iota/pow-neon.js @types/node --save-dev

Reviewer 2: Can't run this command.
I get: `npm ERR! Invalid Version: `
What am I doing wrong?

Reviewer: From the docs: https://wiki.iota.org/iotajs/how_tos/run_how_tos you need to do

```
npm install
npm run dist-neon
npm run dist-all
```

to be able to run their examples.

Author: The idea here was to install the deps by the latest npmjs modules (@next), so you don't need to build every package - because you also would need a rust compiler to run this javascript tutorial. But it seems, this is nor working on many devices. 

What do you think? It's not a good DX to enforce javascript developers install a rust compiler. Are they other ways to solve that?

Reviewer: I guess at this point I'd actually follow the format that for example @adrian-grassl uses in his tutorials: tell the reader how to set up a fresh project with its own dependencies and use the example code given by the iotajs repo only as a reference. This removes the need for the reader to clone the entire repo and navigate to an obscure directory altogether and to me having to install and alter dependencies in an example folder myself feels weird anyway. Just tell the reader what is the next step and give the code to do that so the reader can copy it. Wdyt?

Author: A "fresh-project-start" for a tutorial sounds like a very good practice. The idea was here, to reduce to copy paste amount for the developers, because this examples has 300 lines of code - which is too much for a "step by step" tutorial in my opinion. But this example acts more like a script which leads you trough the process in your terminal, maybe this is just too heavy for a tutorial and we can reduce the code. 

But first, we need to check the `npm install` part, im not sure if this removes the error with the dependency installation.

npm install
```

The next step is compiling the typescript code into Javascript so you can run it. You can do so by running the following command:

```bash
npm run dist
```

This will create a new directory `dist` with a Javascript file called `index.js`. 

## Run
You can run the previous build file `index.js` by simple type this into your terminal:

```bash
npm start
```

> If you can read this prompt, your setup is complete and the script is running successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you can read this prompt, your setup is complete and the script runs successfully.
```

> Target address (Bech32 encoded) where to mint the NFT. Leave empty, and the script will generate an address for you: 

> This means you can input an address to create an NFT and mint it to a given address - so you can input a friend's address or add an address from a Shimmer wallet. If you leave the address blank, the script will generate a temporary account and mint the NFT to the address of the temporary account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means you can input an address to create an NFT and mint it to a given address - so you can input a friend's address or add one from a Shimmer wallet. If you leave the address blank, the script will generate a temporary account and mint the NFT to the address of the temporary account.
```

## Mint a NFT

> The example leads us through the process of creating an NFT. We can mint for a specific address or mint one to a temporary account. Keep in mind, that this is just an example and should not be used to store NFTs in the Mainnet.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example leads us through the process of creating an NFT. We can mint for a specific address or mint one to a temporary account. Remember, that this is just an example and should not be used to store NFTs in the Mainnet.  
```

So, let's assume you have already started the minting script - to do this, just run this in your `mint-nft` example directory:

```bash
npm start
```

> Now, just hit Enter - and the script does some magic things in the background. After a while, we created an NFT. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, just hit Enter - and the script does some magical things in the background. After a while, we created an NFT. 
```

Congratulations! You have now created your first Layer 1 NFT on Shimmer. How easy was that? 

> But let's dive a bit deeper and discover the steps which did the magic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But let's dive deeper and discover the steps that did the magic.
```

> You can see, after you hit Enter - the script created two addresses - a `target` address, where to send the NFT, and a `Sender`address, from which the NFT got sent. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see, after you hit Enter - the script created two addresses - a `target` address, where to send the NFT, and a `Sender` address, from which the NFT got sent. 
```

```bash
Target address (Bech32 encoded) where to mint the NFT or leave empty and we will generate an address for you: 
Target Address:
        Seed 5a8a3dfe32ddad4a72fd5f4644d1484c7c5363c0553c55dcd9af9bd74c295ef8
        Address Ed25519 0x85a1fa0740ff47eb1fda37da88c2f8f1dac2627e6be54fd1b7351bf90cda14f9
        Address Bech32 rms1qzz6r7s8grl506clmgma4zxzlrca4snz0e472n73ku63h7gvmg20j27zfve
Sender Address:
        Seed 6e6c7d96ef037ad7ddc8222ccd33a1c161cd4ab767dc660605f8e515a4248e5f
        Address Ed25519 0x64da7f2da173cf177d4608369c95ba7749232fd32be09e8e3cbd89035fabbf90
        Address Bech32 rms1qpjd5led59eu79magcyrd8y4hfm5jge06v47p85w8j7cjq6l4wleqycsa63
```

Now the script will:
1. Request some test tokens from the faucet.
2. Create the NFT.
3. Send it to the `target` address. 

After some time, the script will output a link to the new [Shimmer Network explorer](https://explorer.shimmer.network/), where you can find more information about the transaction within the NFT. 

> :::tip Testnet Tokens

Reviewer 2: Testnet or Devnet? :trollface:

> If you need some Testnet tokens, you can use the [online faucet for Shimmer](https://faucet.alphanet.iotaledger.net/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need some Testnet tokens, you can use the [online faucet for Shimmer](https://faucet.alphanet.iotaledger.net/).

:::
```

```bash
OutputId:  0x3acd3f42a03d595cb9d134635ed67aa4721bdb4ccb15ef10ebb8646daabb04910000
To be consumed output:  {
  type: 3,
  amount: '1000000000',
  unlockConditions: [ { type: 0, address: [Object] } ]
}
Input:  {
  type: 0,
  transactionId: '0x3acd3f42a03d595cb9d134635ed67aa4721bdb4ccb15ef10ebb8646daabb0491',
  transactionOutputIndex: 0
}
Required Storage Deposit of the NFT output:  270500
Submitted blockId is:  0xfdfd9cdd92c6d710cafc96c8f0c9c010aca4286faad1722c45a08bc23e15d6bb

> Check out the transaction at  https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet/block/0xfdfd9cdd92c6d710cafc96c8f0c9c010aca4286faad1722c45a08bc23e15d6bb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the transaction at  https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet/block/0xfdfd9cdd92c6d710cafc96c8f0c9c010aca4286faad1722c45a08bc23e15d6bb.
```

Done
```

### Shimmer Explorer

> [Visit Shimmer Explorer here](https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet)

> You can click on the link above and discover the information on the Shimmer network Explorer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can click on the link above and discover the information on the Shimmer Network Explorer. 
```

![Shimmer Explorer](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/explorer.png)

> You can open the details on the NFT output to see the connected NFT Metadata. Just click on the `NFT Output`and the `Immutable Metadata` to view the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can open the details on the NFT output to see the connected NFT Metadata. Just click on the `NFT Output` and the `Immutable Metadata` to view the data.
```

![NFT Metadata](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/metadata.png)

In this example, the data is a text called `This is where the immutable NFT metadata goes`. Let's discover what NFT Metadata is in detail and how you can add some custom Metadata and learn how other applications can use it.  

## NFT Metadata

> You can define any data as **immutable metadata**, which will be stored in the Tangle. The community defined a standard for the metadata called [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65). This enables interoperability so the standardized metadata can be used by decentral applications like NFT marketplaces. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define any data as **immutable metadata** stored on the Tangle. The community defined a standard for the metadata called [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65). The standard enables interoperability, so decentralized applications like NFT marketplaces can use the standardized metadata.
```

> This is a simple example of IRC27 compatible metadata. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A simple example of IRC27 compatible metadata could be: 
```

```javascript
const METADATA = {
    standard: "IRC27",
    version: "v1.0",
    type: "image/jpeg",
    uri: "https://robohash.org/shimmer",
    name: "NFT on Shimmer",
    issuerName: "My name",
    description: "This is My First NFT on Shimmer"
};
```

You can find a more complex example with royalties and NFT attributes in the [IRC27](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/pull/65), but for this tutorial, the simple example is enough. 

### How to add Metadata to an NFT

For this example, you need to extend the code for your custom Metadata. To do so, you need to open the source file in `src/index.ts` and add your Metadata Object and a converter to input the data into the transaction.

Add your metadata as a constant on line 35 below the `EXPLORER`, `API_ENDPOINT`, and `FAUCET` constants.

> Please feel free to use another `name`, `issuerName`, `description`, and `uri` for the image to create your unique NFT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use another `name`, `issuerName`, `description`, and `uri` for the image to create your unique NFT.
```

```javascript
const METADATA = {
    standard: "IRC27",
    version: "v1.0",
    type: "image/jpeg",
    uri: "https://robohash.org/shimmer",
    name: "NFT on Shimmer",
    issuerName: "My name",
    description: "This is My First NFT on Shimmer"
};
```

You will need to convert the Javascript object into a Hex format so the library can send the transaction.
You can do so by replacing line 106 with the following changes:

**Old**:

```javascript
data: Converter.utf8ToHex("This is where the immutable NFT metadata goes", true)
```
**New**:

```javascript
data: Converter.utf8ToHex(JSON.stringify(METADATA), true)
```

> After you have customized your NFT, you will need to compile the Typescript filet o Javascript again, and run the example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have customized your NFT, you will need to recompile and run the example:
```

```bash
npm run dist
npm start
```

**Expected output:** 

```bash
Required Storage Deposit of the NFT output:  342500
Submitted blockId is:  0x1e74f33313586cc2806776ee272deb65f140c2aafa53ce8040dea8c1820e1117
Check out the transaction at  https://explorer.alphanet.iotaledger.net/alphanet/block/0x1e74f33313586cc2806776ee272deb65f140c2aafa53ce8040dea8c1820e1117
Done
```

![NFT with IRC27 compatible metadata](./images/mint-nft-with-javascript-shimmer/irc27.png)

> :::info
> The maximum length of a Metadata field in the Shimmer Network is 8192 bytes and is defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md)
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info

The maximum length of a Metadata field in the Shimmer Network is 8192 bytes and is defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md)

:::
```

Minting must respect the following constraints:

 - _NFT ID_ must be zeroed out. The protocol will replace it with the blake2b-256 hash of the _Output ID_ upon booking.
 - _Issuer_ address must be unlocked on the input side.
 - _Immutable Metadata_ length must not exceed _Maximum Metadata Length_ defined in [TIP-22 (IOTA)](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/protocol-parameters/tips/TIP-0022/tip-0022.md) or [TIP-32 (Shimmer)](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/shimmer-params/tips/TIP-0032/tip-0032.md).

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
